.TH mumpsc 1 "January 8, 2002" "MUMPSC"

.SH NAME
mumpsc \- Mumps compiler

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mumpsc 
[\-n|\-\-native|\-b|\-\-berkeley|\-s[T|U|S]|\-\-server=[udp|tcp|ssl]] 
[\-p|\-\-postgres] [\-g|\-\-debug] [\-d<IP>|\-\-default_ip=<IP>]
.RI filename
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains the
.B mumpsc
program. This program translates a source file written in the Mumps language
into a C source file, which is then compiled into an executable.
.PP
\fBmumpsc\fP is actually a shell script and wrapper to \fBmumps2c\fP, the Mumps
to C translator. It also calls cc if a source file is successfully generated.
.PP
"filename" is of the form "progname.mps" followed by zero or more
"prog.o" file names.  The ".mps" and ".o" extensions are required.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n [ \-\-native ]
Use the native database implementation for global array handling.
.TP
.B \-b [ \-\-berkeley ]
Use Berkeley DB to manage global array storage. (This is the default)
.TP
.B \-s<TYPE> [ \-\-server=<TYPE> ]
Use client-server mode for global array handling.  This mode has three different sub-modes, 
in the form of TCP, UDP, or SSL clients.  Make sure you compile the client correctly for the
server which is running.
.TP
.B \-p [ \-\-postgres ]
Compile with the Postgres library, needed to provide function calls emitted
when compiling "SQL" commands in the Mumps source.
.TP
.B \-g [ \-\-debug ]
Compile the generated C code with debugging symbols, to allow for the use of a
debugger on the resulting binaries.
.TP
.B \-d<IP> [ \-\-default_ip=<IP> ] 
This option sets the default IP for the client to connect to.  By default it is set to 
127.0.0.1, but any executable compiled as a client takes an optional argument of an IP 
or host to connect to.

.SH BUGS
Please e-mail bug reports to the authors. You should include a Mumps source file
that can reproduce the error, and the version number (found in the name of the
source tarball the  compiler is installed from).

.SH AUTHOR
Most of the source code for this Mumps compiler was written by Kevin O'Kane,
<okane@cs.uni.edu>, at the University of Northern Iowa.
The Berkeley-DB based global array library was written by Matthew Lockner,
<lockner@cns.uni.edu>.
Work on the client-server extensions of the compiler are currently authored by
Michael Janssen, <janssen@cns.uni.edu>.

.SH SEE ALSO
The full documentation of this compiler, including a full reference on the
Mumps language and the dialect supported by this compiler, may be found in
.PP
/usr/share/doc/mumpsc/compiler.html
.PP
man pages: mumps-ssl-server, mumps-tcp-server, and mumps-udp-server
.PP
Also in that area are included a few sample Mumps programs.
